Being pretty much the only programmer on my team in the First Robotics Competition, I figured I'd write a little bit about how it went. The challenge basically involved picking up and shooting balls into holes while navigating obstacles.

1. I set up eclipse but I couldn't deploy to the computer in the robot (called the RoboRIO). Imaging the RIO didn't help, and it turned out it was because if you do a search for the roboRIO image, the 2015 one comes up first but the 2016 one is the one required for the version of eclipse I was using. PageRank sure does have its oddities.
2. There's one other person on the team who knows anything at all about programming, and the only language she has experience with is Java. I thought I might as well program it in Java because of that, but I was worried about the processor requirements that the image recognition would require on the pitiful computer we had to use. It turned out that the other programmer didn't actually have *that* much experience with Java, so I converted everything to C++
3. So we're going to use a Raspberry Pi for increased processor power (Even with C++ the RIO might not be enough). Since competition rules dictate we have to use the RIO to control the actuators but you can have additional computers for handling input that just tell the RIO what to do, I had to find a way to interface the two. Since the build team was being *very* slow building the cannon to shoot the balls, I decided to play around with using Python on the robot, in part because I thought it would be easier to teach to the other programmer.
4. 